content/39c3.md, before:

---
title: RopeLabs at 39C3
description: RopeLabs assembly at 39C3 Congress
sidebarTitle: RopeLabs
sidebarSummary: A small, queer-friendly group of rope enthusiasts, building a friendly and respectful environment for exploring rope safely and openly.
backLinkHref: /
backLinkLabel: Back to RopeLabs
---

# RopeLabs at 39C3

We're an assembly 39C3 (Congress). We’re working with [KinkyGeeks.de](https://kinkygeeks.de) to run beginner bondage workshops, host a rope jam, and provide safe, accessible rope practice throughout Congress.

## 🎪 What's happening

At our assembly, you can:

- Attend [beginner-friendly bondage workshops](#workshops-rope-jam) run with KinkyGeeks
- Join an [open rope jam](#workshops-rope-jam) to tie, be tied, or observe
- Take home [rope and safety equipment](#rope-safety-kit-for-sale) on a pay-what-you-want basis, which helps fund workshops and shared gear
- Drop by with questions or to nerd about rope

<!--
## ⚠️ Help us make this happen before Congress

**Two quick actions make a real difference:**

- 🎫 Assign your ticket to the RopeLabs assembly so we get enough table space
- ⭐ Favourite our workshops so we can secure a room

### 🎫 Assembly ticket assignment

Please assign your ticket to RopeLabs in Pretix. Assembly assignment is used to allocate table space.

**In short:**

1. Open your ticket confirmation email
2. Click the Pretix link
3. Select **Change details**
4. Choose the **RopeLabs** assembly

**More detail:**

Open your order confirmation email and click the link to review your order.  
In the light grey bar at the top, select **Change details**, then pick the RopeLabs assembly.

More information on how allocation works is available here is on the [event wiki](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/infos/assemblies.html#seat-allocation-and-assignment).

### ⭐ Favourite our workshops

Room allocation is partially based on the number of favourites. **Please favourite any RopeLabs workshops you want to attend.** Without enough favourites, we will not get a room and the workshops cannot run.

You can favourite workshops via the [hub](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/index), searching for [bondage](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/tag/bondage), or using the [links below](#workshops-rope-jam).
-->

<!--
### 🕐 Opening hours

### Opening hours

The RopeLabs assembly is open throughout Congress. You can visit, tie, or meet people without an appointment.

We also have **opening hours**, when team members are present and available to help.

**During opening hours**
- Team members are available for questions
- You can borrow practice rope and equipment
- We can help with technique and safety

**Outside opening hours**
- The space remains open for visits and free tying
- Team members may be busy or unavailable
- We may ask you to come back during opening hours

Opening hours will be posted here once confirmed. They run throughout Congress, except during workshops and the rope jam.
-->

## 📍 Finding RopeLabs at 39C3

You can find us in Hall Y on Floor 2, or by [searching c3nav](https://39c3.c3nav.de/l/ropelabs/).

## 🎒 Equipment & Facilities

**We provide**

- Space to tie with soft flooring
- Space to watch others tie
- A small amount of practice rope, also for sale
- A small library of educational shibari books

**Please bring**

- Your own non-stretchy rope, we have some to borrow
- Expect shoes-off areas
- Anything you need for aftercare

## 📋 Guidelines

RopeLabs is a queer-friendly, sex-positive, and inclusive environment.

These guidelines apply specifically to 39C3, in addition to our [general guidelines](/#guidelines).

### Consent and behaviour

- Consent comes first. Always ask before touching, tying, or photographing someone.
- No sexual activity. Everything at this event is non-sexual.
- Respect personal space and boundaries.
- Outside of safety or consent concerns, do not interrupt other people's scenes.

### Clothing and space

- Wear what you want, though loose-fitting clothes may get in the way when tying.
- A minimum level of coverage is required at all times, in line with Congress rules.
- Shoes off on any matting or carpet.
- Take care of each other. If you are unsure, ask a RopeLabs team member or experienced community member.

### Safety and equipment

- Do not interrupt a scene unless you see a clear safety or consent issue.<sup>\*</sup>
- Keep cutting equipment suitable for rope within arms reach.

<sup>\*</sup>Ideally grab one of the RopeLabs team if you have a specific safety or consent concern. Our team are trained safety monitors and can help assess the risk.

## 🛒 Rope & Safety Kit for Sale

We offer rope and safety equipment on a **pay-what-you-want (donation) basis** at 39C3.  
Purchases help fund workshops and shared assembly equipment.

Kit will be available from **4:30pm** on Day 1 at the [RopeLabs Assembly](#finding-ropelabs-at-39c3).

- **Ogawa Jute · 6 mm** – Hand-treated Japanese jute with a smooth, responsive feel
- **POSH · 5 mm** – Low-stretch, washable synthetic that handles like jute
- **Basic safety scissors** – Simple trauma shears for safe rope cutting
- **Folding emergency shears** – Heavy duty multifunctional scissors with holster

**For suggested pricing, and help choosing the right setup, see [Rope & Safety Kit Details](/39c3/rope-for-sale).**

### Rope Spikes

We also have shibari rope spikes available in two styles:

#### Print Spikes

These spikes leave a decorative print or logo on your skin when pressed against it with rope. We have two designs:

- Fairydust (C3 Rocket)
- Kitty

#### Standard Spikes

These spikes slide onto rope and create sharp pressure points that dig into the skin. For those who enjoy more intense sensation.

**For suggested pricing see [details](/39c3/rope-for-sale#rope-spikes).**

## 🎓 Workshops & Rope Jam

Times follow the [events.ccc.de](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/index) schedule; check there for the latest updates.

- 🎓 **[101 – KinkyGeeks + RopeLabs Beginner Bondage Workshop Part I](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/kinkygeeks-ropelabs-beginner-bondage-workshop-1)**  
  📅 **Day 1, 14:00–15:50**  

  Learn the basics of Japanese rope bondage. No prior experience required. Bring rope, a blanket, and comfy clothes. 18+ only.

- 🎓 **[KinkyGeeks + RopeLabs Beginner Bondage Workshop Part II: Next Steps](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/102-kinkygeeks-ropelabs-bondage-workshop-building-)**  
  📅 **Day 2, 21:30–22:50**

  A continuation of 101, or for those with some experience. Build on previous knowledge with more technique and practice. Bring rope and comfy clothes. 18+ only.

- 🎪 **[RopeLabs Rope Jam](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/ropelabs-rope-jam)**  
  📅 **Day 3, 22:30–01:25**

  An open, relaxed rope space. Come tie, be tied, or hang out. Great for sharing, learning, and connecting. 18+ only.

- 🧵 **Rope Whippings for Beginners** ([English](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/rope-whippings-for-beginners_1gv6) / [Deutsch](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/seile-takeln-fur-anfanger_p947))  
  📅 **Day 1, 13:00–13:55 (English), 12:00–12:55 (Deutsch)**

  Learn two techniques to whip ropes. Whippings are sewing techniques used to secure the ends of ropes against fraying. Materials will be provided, you are welcome to bring your rope. You will need a little manual dexterity, hand-eye-coordination, and a bit of strength in your fingers.


### Workshop Handouts

A PDF of our workshop handout is available [on GitHub](https://github.com/RopeLabsOrg/workshop/tree/main)

## 🔗 Follow Us

You can follow us at:

#### **RopeLabs**

- **RopeLabs** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/RopeLabs), [Mastodon](https://chaos.social/@RopeLabs)

#### **Organisers**

- **DoodleMe** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/DoodleMe), [Mastodon](https://chaos.social/@pezmc) - [Tsuri Neko Rope Space](https://tsurineko.org), Leuven, Belgium
- **KnottyLola** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/KnottyLola), [Mastodon](https://chaos.social/@lola)
- **simon_fredrikson** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/simon_fredrikson)
- **orangem** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/orangem)
- **Diac** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/diac)
- **Bart** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/w817)
- **Kluthulhu** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/kluthulhu) - [Mastodon](https://infosec.exchange/@kluthulhu)

## 🧑‍🏫 Where to learn more?

We strongly recommend you find your closest rope space, peer rope or munch.
If this is not possible, there are plenty of good websites with recordings. 

### Offline Suggestions

A good place to search for in person events is [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com).

_We intend to give a list of specific spaces here "soon"™, please [@ us](https://chaos.social/@RopeLabs) if this isn't done by the end of congress, or you have suggestions of a space you love!_

#### Belgium

- Tailored workshops and private lessons at [Tsuri Neko](https://tsurineko.org), Leuven (our rope space)
- [Peer Rope](https://sites.google.com/view/peerropeleuven/home), Leuven
- [Nicolas' Rope Dojo](https://dojo.a-nicolas.art), Brussels
- Search [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) for rope jams, peer rope, and workshops in your city

#### Germany

- [IKSK](https://www.iksk-berlin.de), Berlin - rope bondage events and workshops
- [Seilhafen](https://seilhafen.de), Berlin - contemporary rope bondage education and workshops
- [Karada House](https://karada-house.de), Berlin - queer Shibari, kink & art space with workshops and events
- [KOR Berlin](https://www.korberlin.com), Berlin - educational classes and community gatherings
- Search [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) for rope jams, peer rope, and workshops in your city

#### Austria

- [Rope Rebels](https://sites.google.com/view/roperebelsvienna/home), Vienna - queer-friendly rope space with monthly jams and workshops
- [Kinbaku Studio Vienna](https://kinbaku.at), Vienna - classes, workshops, and regular events
- [Querverbindungen](https://www.querverbindungen.at), Vienna - bondage jams, munch, and workshops
- Search [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) for rope jams, peer rope, and workshops in your city

#### Netherlands

- [Knot Here](https://www.knothere.nl), Amsterdam - rope events and welcoming community space
- [Ellipsis Rope](https://www.instagram.com/ellipsisropeevents), Rotterdam - workshops, community, and hand-finished rope
- Search [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) for rope jams and peer rope events in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, and other cities

#### Denmark

- [Kinbaku Lounge](https://kinbakulounge.dk) - classes, workshops, practice sessions, and shop

### Online Suggestions

- [TsuriNeko.org](https://tsurineko.org) - mix of free and paid lessons (our rope space)
- [Crash Restraint](https://crash-restraint.com) - free tutorials and comprehensive learning resources
- [The Duchy](https://theduchy.com) - curated paid lessons and tutorials
- [Shibari Study](https://shibaristudy.com) - subscription video library with extensive technique coverage
- [Rope365](https://rope365.com) - daily rope tutorials and technique videos
- [Two Knotty Boys](https://twoknottyboys.com) - tutorials and educational content
- [Rope Connections](https://ropeconnections.com) - online workshops and community resources
- [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) - social network & event listings

## 💰 How to donate?

You can donate in the following ways:

- **Cash** in our donation box at the assembly
- **Bank transfer**: IE26SUMU99036512523634 (Name: Peg Productions)
- **[Online via SumUp](https://pay.sumup.com/b2c/Q3LMF1GC)** (3% fee)
- **Card payment** at the assembly (3% fee)

All donations beyond the cost of our equipment go to the RopeLabs organization to fund future events and activities, not to individuals. For information, see our [Donate page](/donate).

Commit message:

:rotating_light: Add sober warning

content/39c3.md, after:

---
title: RopeLabs at 39C3
description: RopeLabs assembly at 39C3 Congress
sidebarTitle: RopeLabs
sidebarSummary: A small, queer-friendly group of rope enthusiasts, building a friendly and respectful environment for exploring rope safely and openly.
backLinkHref: /
backLinkLabel: Back to RopeLabs
---

# RopeLabs at 39C3

We're an assembly 39C3 (Congress). We’re working with [KinkyGeeks.de](https://kinkygeeks.de) to run beginner bondage workshops, host a rope jam, and provide safe, accessible rope practice throughout Congress.

## 🎪 What's happening

At our assembly, you can:

- Attend [beginner-friendly bondage workshops](#workshops-rope-jam) run with KinkyGeeks
- Join an [open rope jam](#workshops-rope-jam) to tie, be tied, or observe
- Take home [rope and safety equipment](#rope-safety-kit-for-sale) on a pay-what-you-want basis, which helps fund workshops and shared gear
- Drop by with questions or to nerd about rope

<!--
## ⚠️ Help us make this happen before Congress

**Two quick actions make a real difference:**

- 🎫 Assign your ticket to the RopeLabs assembly so we get enough table space
- ⭐ Favourite our workshops so we can secure a room

### 🎫 Assembly ticket assignment

Please assign your ticket to RopeLabs in Pretix. Assembly assignment is used to allocate table space.

**In short:**

1. Open your ticket confirmation email
2. Click the Pretix link
3. Select **Change details**
4. Choose the **RopeLabs** assembly

**More detail:**

Open your order confirmation email and click the link to review your order.  
In the light grey bar at the top, select **Change details**, then pick the RopeLabs assembly.

More information on how allocation works is available here is on the [event wiki](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/infos/assemblies.html#seat-allocation-and-assignment).

### ⭐ Favourite our workshops

Room allocation is partially based on the number of favourites. **Please favourite any RopeLabs workshops you want to attend.** Without enough favourites, we will not get a room and the workshops cannot run.

You can favourite workshops via the [hub](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/index), searching for [bondage](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/tag/bondage), or using the [links below](#workshops-rope-jam).
-->

<!--
### 🕐 Opening hours

### Opening hours

The RopeLabs assembly is open throughout Congress. You can visit, tie, or meet people without an appointment.

We also have **opening hours**, when team members are present and available to help.

**During opening hours**
- Team members are available for questions
- You can borrow practice rope and equipment
- We can help with technique and safety

**Outside opening hours**
- The space remains open for visits and free tying
- Team members may be busy or unavailable
- We may ask you to come back during opening hours

Opening hours will be posted here once confirmed. They run throughout Congress, except during workshops and the rope jam.
-->

## 📍 Finding RopeLabs at 39C3

You can find us in Hall Y on Floor 2, or by [searching c3nav](https://39c3.c3nav.de/l/ropelabs/).

## 🎒 Equipment & Facilities

**We provide**

- Space to tie with soft flooring
- Space to watch others tie
- A small amount of practice rope, also for sale
- A small library of educational shibari books

**Please bring**

- Your own non-stretchy rope, we have some to borrow
- Expect shoes-off areas
- Anything you need for aftercare

## 📋 Guidelines

RopeLabs is a queer-friendly, sex-positive, and inclusive environment.

These guidelines apply specifically to 39C3, in addition to our [general guidelines](/#guidelines).

### Consent and behaviour

- Consent comes first. Always ask before touching, tying, or photographing someone.
- No sexual activity. Everything at this event is non-sexual.
- Respect personal space and boundaries.
- Outside of safety or consent concerns, do not interrupt other people's scenes.

### Clothing and space

- Wear what you want, though loose-fitting clothes may get in the way when tying.
- A minimum level of coverage is required at all times, in line with Congress rules.
- Shoes off on any matting or carpet.
- Take care of each other. If you are unsure, ask a RopeLabs team member or experienced community member.

### Safety and equipment

- Do not interrupt a scene unless you see a clear safety or consent issue.<sup>\*</sup>
- Keep cutting equipment suitable for rope within arms reach.

<sup>\*</sup>Ideally grab one of the RopeLabs team if you have a specific safety or consent concern. Our team are trained safety monitors and can help assess the risk.

## 🛒 Rope & Safety Kit for Sale

We offer rope and safety equipment on a **pay-what-you-want (donation) basis** at 39C3.  
Purchases help fund workshops and shared assembly equipment.

Kit will be available from **4:30pm** on Day 1 at the [RopeLabs Assembly](#finding-ropelabs-at-39c3).

- **Ogawa Jute · 6 mm** – Hand-treated Japanese jute with a smooth, responsive feel
- **POSH · 5 mm** – Low-stretch, washable synthetic that handles like jute
- **Basic safety scissors** – Simple trauma shears for safe rope cutting
- **Folding emergency shears** – Heavy duty multifunctional scissors with holster

**For suggested pricing, and help choosing the right setup, see [Rope & Safety Kit Details](/39c3/rope-for-sale).**

### Rope Spikes

We also have shibari rope spikes available in two styles:

#### Print Spikes

These spikes leave a decorative print or logo on your skin when pressed against it with rope. We have two designs:

- Fairydust (C3 Rocket)
- Kitty

#### Standard Spikes

These spikes slide onto rope and create sharp pressure points that dig into the skin. For those who enjoy more intense sensation.

**For suggested pricing see [details](/39c3/rope-for-sale#rope-spikes).**

## 🎓 Workshops & Rope Jam

Times follow the [events.ccc.de](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/index) schedule; check there for the latest updates.

- 🎓 **[101 – KinkyGeeks + RopeLabs Beginner Bondage Workshop Part I](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/kinkygeeks-ropelabs-beginner-bondage-workshop-1)**  
  📅 **Day 1, 14:00–15:50**  

  Learn the basics of Japanese rope bondage. No prior experience required. Bring rope, a blanket, and comfy clothes. 18+ only.

- 🎓 **[KinkyGeeks + RopeLabs Beginner Bondage Workshop Part II: Next Steps](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/102-kinkygeeks-ropelabs-bondage-workshop-building-)**  
  📅 **Day 2, 21:30–22:50**

  A continuation of 101, or for those with some experience. Build on previous knowledge with more technique and practice. Bring rope and comfy clothes. 18+ only.

- 🎪 **[RopeLabs Rope Jam](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/ropelabs-rope-jam)**  
  📅 **Day 3, 22:30–01:25**

  An open, relaxed rope space. Come tie, be tied, or hang out. Great for sharing, learning, and connecting. 18+ only.
  ⚠️ This is a sober event. Anyone we suspect is intoxicated will be turned away.

- 🧵 **Rope Whippings for Beginners** ([English](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/rope-whippings-for-beginners_1gv6) / [Deutsch](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2025/hub/en/event/detail/seile-takeln-fur-anfanger_p947))  
  📅 **Day 1, 13:00–13:55 (English), 12:00–12:55 (Deutsch)**

  Learn two techniques to whip ropes. Whippings are sewing techniques used to secure the ends of ropes against fraying. Materials will be provided, you are welcome to bring your rope. You will need a little manual dexterity, hand-eye-coordination, and a bit of strength in your fingers.


### Workshop Handouts

A PDF of our workshop handout is available [on GitHub](https://github.com/RopeLabsOrg/workshop/tree/main)

## 🔗 Follow Us

You can follow us at:

#### **RopeLabs**

- **RopeLabs** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/RopeLabs), [Mastodon](https://chaos.social/@RopeLabs)

#### **Organisers**

- **DoodleMe** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/DoodleMe), [Mastodon](https://chaos.social/@pezmc) - [Tsuri Neko Rope Space](https://tsurineko.org), Leuven, Belgium
- **KnottyLola** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/KnottyLola), [Mastodon](https://chaos.social/@lola)
- **simon_fredrikson** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/simon_fredrikson)
- **orangem** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/orangem)
- **Diac** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/diac)
- **Bart** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/w817)
- **Kluthulhu** - [FetLife](https://fetlife.com/kluthulhu) - [Mastodon](https://infosec.exchange/@kluthulhu)

## 🧑‍🏫 Where to learn more?

We strongly recommend you find your closest rope space, peer rope or munch.
If this is not possible, there are plenty of good websites with recordings. 

### Offline Suggestions

A good place to search for in person events is [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com).

_We intend to give a list of specific spaces here "soon"™, please [@ us](https://chaos.social/@RopeLabs) if this isn't done by the end of congress, or you have suggestions of a space you love!_

#### Belgium

- Tailored workshops and private lessons at [Tsuri Neko](https://tsurineko.org), Leuven (our rope space)
- [Peer Rope](https://sites.google.com/view/peerropeleuven/home), Leuven
- [Nicolas' Rope Dojo](https://dojo.a-nicolas.art), Brussels
- Search [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) for rope jams, peer rope, and workshops in your city

#### Germany

- [IKSK](https://www.iksk-berlin.de), Berlin - rope bondage events and workshops
- [Seilhafen](https://seilhafen.de), Berlin - contemporary rope bondage education and workshops
- [Karada House](https://karada-house.de), Berlin - queer Shibari, kink & art space with workshops and events
- [KOR Berlin](https://www.korberlin.com), Berlin - educational classes and community gatherings
- Search [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) for rope jams, peer rope, and workshops in your city

#### Austria

- [Rope Rebels](https://sites.google.com/view/roperebelsvienna/home), Vienna - queer-friendly rope space with monthly jams and workshops
- [Kinbaku Studio Vienna](https://kinbaku.at), Vienna - classes, workshops, and regular events
- [Querverbindungen](https://www.querverbindungen.at), Vienna - bondage jams, munch, and workshops
- Search [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) for rope jams, peer rope, and workshops in your city

#### Netherlands

- [Knot Here](https://www.knothere.nl), Amsterdam - rope events and welcoming community space
- [Ellipsis Rope](https://www.instagram.com/ellipsisropeevents), Rotterdam - workshops, community, and hand-finished rope
- Search [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) for rope jams and peer rope events in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, and other cities

#### Denmark

- [Kinbaku Lounge](https://kinbakulounge.dk) - classes, workshops, practice sessions, and shop

### Online Suggestions

- [TsuriNeko.org](https://tsurineko.org) - mix of free and paid lessons (our rope space)
- [Crash Restraint](https://crash-restraint.com) - free tutorials and comprehensive learning resources
- [The Duchy](https://theduchy.com) - curated paid lessons and tutorials
- [Shibari Study](https://shibaristudy.com) - subscription video library with extensive technique coverage
- [Rope365](https://rope365.com) - daily rope tutorials and technique videos
- [Two Knotty Boys](https://twoknottyboys.com) - tutorials and educational content
- [Rope Connections](https://ropeconnections.com) - online workshops and community resources
- [FetLife.com](https://fetlife.com) - social network & event listings

## 💰 How to donate?

You can donate in the following ways:

- **Cash** in our donation box at the assembly
- **Bank transfer**: IE26SUMU99036512523634 (Name: Peg Productions)
- **[Online via SumUp](https://pay.sumup.com/b2c/Q3LMF1GC)** (3% fee)
- **Card payment** at the assembly (3% fee)

All donations beyond the cost of our equipment go to the RopeLabs organization to fund future events and activities, not to individuals. For information, see our [Donate page](/donate).
